# Proof of passion for Blockchain technologies

### Day 3 
#### <ins>**Privacy**</ins>
To participate in the distributed decentralized application nobody needs to reveal his or her identity. All they need to have a public and private key pair and from private key they can derive a public address which is the identity for the particular person in the network. All the transactions are pointing to or from this address which is an arbitrary string and no one can recalculate the private key or any other personal information related to that string which is indeed a hash generated. This public address in the block chain system is the hash of the public key associated with the given private key. So it's computationally impossible to guess the private key from the public address and no personal information is attached with the public address.


### Day 2 
#### <ins>**Key pair**</ins>
A key pair is the pair of public and private keys. Public keys can be produced by the private key. There is no way to determine the private key from a given public key. 
Private keys must be kept secure and private whereas public keys are revealed and known by everyone. 
For insecure network channels the message is signed by the private key (encryption) and creates a signature (cypher). This signature can only be decrypt by the public key associated with the private key with whom the message was signed. 
This helps to ensure that the given signed message is originally generated by the creator of the transaction. 
A public address is also derived from the private key.
RSA and EllipticCurve are two of the famous public key encryption algorithms. EllipticCurve can provide the same security level as of RSA but with shorter key length which can save computations. Hence Bitcoin uses the EllipticCurve signatures. 

Example:  
Assume we have a message as ‘m’, private key as ‘sk’ and public key as ‘pk’ and an Elliptic Curve signature function as ‘E’ which will sign the message and produce the signature as ‘s’. And the function to recover message from the signature is ‘C’ then

sk, m; 	E(sk, m) => s
pk, s; 	C(pk, s) => m


### Day 1 
#### <ins>**Hash function**</ins>
A math function that converts an arbitrary string or file into fixed length string(sequence of characters)
A smaller change in the input might change the output of hash function completely
The output of the hash function is completely unpredictable.
The function is irreversible i.e. the input for a given hash string cannot be produced from the output. 
The function maps the input and output in one-to-one fashion. I.e. a given output can only be reproduced by the same input.
The commonly used hash function is SHA-256
Example:
The hash function used for example is SHA-256

SHA256(“**blockchain technologies**”) =>  afd63d45baadf7eaf2e9b861054f7b435ae5200d46bf4e145468dc38d1e110d7

SHA256(“**blockchain technologies.**”) => a16478e4c8f41d65a5eed3e336b21b1685e4c9b6277897e82a67097d8762ec14

It can be seen that a smaller change in the input has changed the output completely. 


